Update app_domain handling documentation. (#2253)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/manual/govuk-app-domain-handling-during-migration.html.md

layout: manual_layout
type: learn
parent: "/manual.html"
last_reviewed_on: 2020-01-23
review_in: 3 months
---

> The app-by-app migration plan to move GOV.UK to AWS introduced an `$app_domain_internal` parameter in addition to the `$app_domain` used previously. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The app-by-app migration plan to move GOV.UK to AWS introduced an `$app_domain_internal` parameter in addition to the previously used `$app_domain`. 
```

This is necessary because in AWS we use a `<environment>.govuk-internal.digital` domain in addition to the `<environment>.govuk.digital` domain.

> Furthermore, the `app_domain` parameter may be set to the `<environment>.publishing.service.gov.uk` for migrated apps as well. The exact configuration depends on the current state of the migrated app and its dependencies. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the `app_domain` parameter may be set to `<environment>.publishing.service.gov.uk` for migrated apps as well. The exact configuration depends on the current state of the migrated app and its dependencies. 
```

For example, migrated backend applications, such as Support, may be configured to use the `<environment>.publishing.service.gov.uk` `$app_domain` to facilitate access to Signon over the internet. 

> Applications in Carrenza which talk to AWS over the VPN need to resolve `<environment>.govuk-internal.digital`. This internal domain is resolved to the private IP CIDR in AWS (at the moment this is only done for RabbitMQ exchange federation).

Reviewer 2: I know you didn't write the original content, but I don't understand where RabbitMQ fits in as a distinction to make here. We don't mention it anywhere else in this doc. 🤔

Author: That's a good question. I crowd sourced an answer with the team and will update the docs with our current understanding.

It may be a question we need to revisit later on when we get a better sense of the doc's purpose.

As a rule of thumb:

- Applications which have been moved to AWS and have all their dependencies in AWS will use `$app_domain=<environment>.govuk.digital` and `$app_domain_internal=<environment>.govuk-internal.digital`.
- Applications which remain in Carrenza, including all their dependencies, will only use `app_domain=<environment>.publishing.service.gov.uk`.

> - Applications having dependencies in both AWS and Carrenza will require some customisation of service resolution in form of a Plek URI override and may use either `$app_domain=<environment>.govuk.digital` or `$app_domain=<environment>.publishing.service.gov.uk`.

Reviewer 2: What's a Plek URI override? Do we have existing documentation on that to link to? We mention it twice but never say what it actually means. (Most of us probably know, but being explicit is better.)

Author: We don't have docs on Plek override in `govuk-developer-docs` but it's referenced in code: https://github.com/alphagov/plek/blob/master/lib/plek.rb#L27

Since setting the correct service discovery environment for a particular app is complicated due to the migration to AWS, please take extra care to make sure you understand the effects of changes to the app_domain parameter and Plek URI overrides via environment variables. 

> If in doubt, please liaise with RE:GOV.UK, e.g. via Slack #re-govuk to make sure your changes do not have unintended side effects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If in doubt, please [talk to Reliability Engineering](https://docs.publishing.service.gov.uk/manual/raising-issues-with-reliability-engineering.html) to make sure your changes will not have unintended side effects.
```

People should ask for help _before_ their changes go live.

Author: 👍
